---
title: CMake as a beginer, part I
date: 2018-05-18 13:46:00 Z
categories:
- tips
- cmake
tags:
- CMake
- CLion
- Multiplatform
layout: post
---

|------------|
| Use this template project [Simple CMake template][my-github-link] to start. |
|------------|





# Why **CMake**

I have been using `XCode` in Mac and `Visual Studio` in Windows. They are pretty good, but going back and forth to maintain the code get anoying. `Makefile` is the fundamental solution for cross platform, but it can be messy. `CMake` was introduced to resolve that. So, it is a simple multi-platform solution.

The other reason to choose `CMake` is because of the wonderful ide [CLion][clion-link], offered by *Jet Brains*. This `C++` ide is a morden software that gives us many features from refactoring to debuging.

[clion-link]:https://www.jetbrains.com/clion/

# How's my notes going
As I going to guidline of CMake, I get lost. It is a bit complicated. So I noted this guide, which will be very **practical**, i.e. just what you need, no bullshit.
# My first **CMake** project
A simple minimal project is in github: [Simple CMake template][my-github-link].

Learning CMake may be overwhelming. For start, try this template and modify it following your need.

> This sample is a minimal working example for starter. 

Suppose that we want to make an executable project `exec`. This project have a two sub library `lib1` and `lib2`. The library `lib1` depends on the library `lib2`.

To organize the project, we make a sub folder `sub_lib` for each library and a sub folder for the executable code name `main`. So here is the file structure

```
.
|--sub_lib_1
|  +- CMakelists.txt
|  +- code file(s)
|
|- sub_lib_2
|  +- CMakelists.txt
|  +- code file(s)
|
|- main
|  +- code file(s)
|
|- CMakeLists.txt
```

# How to run

Run these following command

```bash
git clone https://github.com/tuannt8/a-simple-CMake-project
cd a-simple-CMake-project
cmake CMakeLists.txt
make
```

Or use `CMake` GUI to build the project.

[my-github-link]:https://github.com/tuannt8/a-simple-CMake-project